Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I'm very happy to have on this program today
with me a very good friend of mine and one of our ableist and most progressive and hard-hitting
senators.
A senator from Texas, Mr. Ralph, Senator Ralph Yarparin.
Thank you very much, Ralph, for coming and doing with us today.
Thank you, Senator.
Keep all for this opportunity to be on your program.
We've watched your record for years and the House of Representatives where TVA was being
set up since you've been in the Senate.
Your crime investigation, your investigation of monopoly, the high price of steel, the
high price of drugs, all of the many services you've rendered to American people.
I may not have laughed, I just want everybody to understand.
I didn't put you up to this.
I was a whole new, I know the Brown Rouge and I suppose the brag on the man who owned
his program.
But as this, I'm breaking the rules because I think this is important and I just want
to say it.
I'm a number of speeches for you in Texas in 1956 when you were running for a Vice President
on the Democratic Ticket and I'm proud of everyone.
Well, you're a seconder, Dad, and I appreciated you helping us too.
Ralph, incidentally, a lot of your people come from Tennessee, don't they?
Oh, yes.
My grandfather was born in Tennessee.
My paternal grandfather, Yarparin, and from the old age pension records, social scared
in others, all the records we have, we know that more people have come to Texas from Tennessee
than from any other state in the Union.
That's right.
Led there by Sam Houston, David Crockett, and many other Tennessee heroes who led the
Westbridge Market, the American people, into Texas.
Well, there's always been a very close relationship between the state of Texas and the state of Tennessee.
But friends, I've asked Senator Yarparin here today to talk with him about, federal
talk with you about federal aid for education.
He was one of the chief sponsors of the bill that we passed in the United States Senate.
Which is now pending in the House.
I've just returned from Tennessee and I saw a lot of teachers, school people, and they
all interested in this subject.
I thought Senator Yarparin would be a mighty good senator who is very conversant with
it to tell us about it.
What tell us about the bill we got passed in the Senate's Ralph and the Need for it?
Well, first of all, there's a situation today with reference to classrooms and teachers.
Estus will have a shortage in the United States of about 135,000 trained school teachers
and a shortage of about 140,000 classrooms.
Now, that doesn't consider the million, 800,000 pupils who are in obsolete classrooms or
crowded classrooms, too small, jammed up fire hazards.
This is just the classrooms where they're having to have two classes today.
Some students go to school half a day, some in the morning, some in the afternoon, which
is a first system of education for the children.
I believe the census will give us about 180 million people when it's completed.
I think it's estimated that 10 years and now we'll have better than 210 million people
in the United States.
Isn't that correct, Ralph?
That's correct.
In the cost of the classrooms, it's increasing.
They tax burden for building these school buildings on the local homeowner and the local
people has just about reached the limit.
And to keep up this proper educational system, we've got to find new sources of tax revenue.
Well, the future of our country depends upon the education of our youth, of course.
Now, what does the bill provide in the way of our grad to the state?
They build it past in the Senate, provides for a billion, nine hundred million dollars,
spent over two years with an optional provision.
They share for the state.
Tennessee would be over twenty five million dollars a year.
It is given to the state on an option.
The state might spend it either for school buildings or for supplements to teach or pay
or for any combination of the state.
Well, we would got twenty five million a year in Tennessee.
It's also based upon the needs of the state and how much would Tennessee taxpayers have
to put it in.
About two and three quarter million.
They don't need, in my state, for example, we would get to sixty two million.
Most of any state, but we have to contribute twelve million.
Some twenty percent, based on need.
In Tennessee, they would contribute about twelve percent.
And there are no federal strings that cost us as purely a grant and as of the state's
degrees, and either supplementing future salaries or for construction of schools is not
correct.
Absolutely.
As Century Keepover, there are no federal strings on it.
No federal control.
Senator Lister Hill of Alabama is chairman of the Labor and Public Welfare Committee.
It's both the bill out, Senator Hill has provisions written in there all of us do to
protect our state.
Thank you very much, Senator Yorbren.
That's all for now, ladies and gentlemen.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of time to see you.
I have a great privilege today of introducing to you, I want you to meet a very good friend
of mine in the United States Senate, an able senator from the state of Michigan, Senator
Pat McNamara.
Pat is sure it's good to have you with us, and I'm glad to have, from our people in Tennessee,
to have a chance of seeing you and of talking with you for a little while.
Well, thanks, Mrs. Certainly, I'm glad you're here with you today.
Senator McNamara, the first time I had the privilege of meeting him, I went up to Flint,
Michigan in 1954, when he was a candidate for the United States Senate at which time he
was elected.
And we had a large audience, so you remember Pat of the auditorium, and I was trying to
get in to make a speech, but Senator McNamara was talking about problems of the age and
age it, and how long did you keep me standing out before I got a chance?
Well, I tried to hurry, yes, because I was very conscious of the fact that this was your
audience, but I had such fine opportunity to talk to him about something that really bothered
me, but I guess we kept you waiting the best part of 45 minutes.
I did at least that, but it was a lot of fun anyway.
Anyway, Senator McNamara is one of our able senators, and as soon as he got to Senate,
he asked for the formation of a special committee to study problems of the age and the age
of the chairman of that committee.
That's right.
Tell us some of the findings of your committee.
Well, we find that there are 16 million Americans who are in this category of the age and age
and who have great problems that our society has overlooked for a number of years.
One of the great problems.
Well, we have many more thanks to medicine and good medication.
More people are living longer now than they used to.
Oh, yes.
At the turn of the century, we had only about 3 million in this category, 65, and this is
an indication about fastest-leaf snowballs.
Well, they certainly need someone to be studying and thinking about their particular problems.
How about the financial income of people in that generally, in that class?
Well, our studies have indicated up to now, saying, keep over that 3 out of 5, 60 percent
of these people have a money income of less than $1,000 a year.
So you see, they really have an income problem.
And then let's talk about some of the other problems.
I know the full-run bill.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, a very important item of business before
the Senate this week was the Mutual Security Bill.
The President asked the Congress for $4,175 million in funds to continue the efforts of
the United States in aiding the free friendly nations of the world to maintain their strength
and growth in the face of communist Russia.
And I may say in this connection, the President feels that this is the most important bill
before the Congress for the security of the United States and of the free world.
Well, the Senate passed a bill which calls for $4,125 million, a reduction of $20,000
under the President's request.
Among many amendments offered were two, which I voted for.
The first of these calls on the Arab Republic to observe freedom of the seas and the administration
of Suez Canal.
All nations are affected by this amendment, although the primary need for the provision
was the recent denial of passage to ships of the Israeli Republic.
I do not believe use of this international waterway should be denied to any nation and
was led to take my stand with many of my colleagues in the Senate in favor of this amendment.
And this is a position incidentally that's been taken by the United Nations General Assembly.
After amendment, for which I voted was defeated, I'm sorry to say.
It calls for a reduction of some $200 million in the military aid funds to foreign nations.
It has been my view for a number of years at the success of the free nations and their
striving for strength and peace.
Can best be served in most instances by economic aid, rather than pure military aid.
I felt for some time that building up the economic sounds and growth of these nations with
technical assistance.
In other ways, we are trying to help make them better bashedms against communism than
just by sending them tanks and guns.
It is for this reason that I have sponsored a resolution in Congress calling for a review
of the NATO nation's many programs of economic aid to underdevelop and uncommitted nations.
Coordination of our efforts along these lines will do much.
I believe to reduce duplication and to eliminate waste.
It will also go a long way toward more sharing of the expense burden by channeling aid from
other allies into the areas where we must win friends and keep them in the coal war.
And unfortunately, continues relentless.
In summation, I would like to make this observation about the mutual security program and what
it stands for.
There are some who will say that it is purely a far and give-away.
There are others who will in the name of waste seek to put an end to this vital program.
I think the most charitable thing that can be placed on such views is to say that they
are not fully enlightened.
I believe that such views must spring from either blandness to the facts of life and the
world today or from a failure to face these facts.
I agree that there have been many instances of waste and many of our programs.
And we must eliminate these wherever we can.
But we do not cut off our hand to cure uninfected fingers.
And we cannot afford to forget that missiles and science have turned thousands of miles
into minutes in 1960.
And have made next-door neighbors out of people's tens of thousands of miles away.
Our global neighbors include friends and forwards and many thousands of people who have made no
commitments to either side.
Our own security in our very living rooms here at home depends upon finding the answers
to the security of our friends who stand with us against Russia.
Mutual security is not an idle phrase.
It is not a far and give-away.
It is I assure you life and death to all of us.
And we must continue to support it and to fight for it against those who would cut it
to ribbons.
In these requests come before the Senate Appropriations Committee, I will continue my every effort
to see that they are not reduced to the danger of the nation.
I think as we go on, that some reductions may be necessary.
We want to improve the programs.
And above all, we want to bring all of our allies into the extent that we care to share
the burden of them.
The President of the United States says that we are the large meeting this week in Washington.
I spoke very strongly in favor of the Mutual Security Program and I am sure that most
of you heard his message.
Thank you very much.
That's all for now.